Hi.
My name is David O'Rourke.
I'm here to talk about directory
services/open directory.
This is session 813.
If you want a WebObject session,
I suggest you go right across the way.
I've introduced myself.
I'm Server Engineering Manager.
What we're going to talk about
today is Apple's Open Directory.
That's a new name this year.
We're going to review
Open Directory as of Mac OS X-1.
We're going to talk about
our future plans for Jaguar.
That's been a theme in the conference.
I think you'll find
that very interesting.
Hopefully after learning about
all this fantastic technology
that we'll be talking about today,
we'll be taking some
questions and answers.
So what is Open Directory?
I've gotten that
question a lot this week.
It's a new name.
It covers client access
and directory servers.
So we see this as a complete
solution for everybody.
It combines industry standard
protocols and open access technology.
What we mean by that is that
we're adopting industry standard
protocols such as LDAPv2,
LDAPv3.
NetInfo has been open source
for a number of years.
We're continuing to support that.
And the open access technologies,
we have both a client side API and
a plug-in API that allows anybody
to access any of the technologies.
These are existing solutions
that have historically
shipped with Mac OS X already.
So this really is a new technology.
What we're doing is just bringing it out
and showing people more about what it is,
what it can do for you.
But we shipped this
originally in Mac OS X 10.0.
And it is now, as of this week,
open source as part of Darwin.
If you like that,
I recommend some applause for some
of the engineers in the corner
that worked real hard on that.
We're very excited about this.
In fact, I bug report last night.
It was kind of interesting.
So what is open directory?
Again, I just went over that.
Access.
But what does access contain?
Well, access consists of two main points.
It's the Mac OS X directory
service architecture and the
existing lookup D architecture,
which has been part of the
BSD code or part of the
Darwin code for quite a while.
That is the foundation upon which client
access has been built in Mac OS X to
access authoritative directory data.
Directory server
technology is for Jaguar.
We'll be integrating open LDAP.
But we also have NetInfo.
We've been shipping that
for a number of years.
That is open source and that's
our directory server technology.
So LDAP and NetInfo combined.
And we ship a number of integrated tools.
We ship a number of integrated tools
for managing the directory contents.
All of the tools in Jaguar,
if you go to Jaguar system preferences
and try to create a new user,
that's using the open
directory technology APIs to
create that user record.
If you go to logon windows,
it's using the open directory
APIs to verify the password.
So we are integrating the management
tools on top of this technology as
well as just providing the technology.
So this is a pervasive effort from Apple.
As many of my coworkers in
the audience will tell you,
I visited them on numerous
occasions telling,
"No, no, no.
You must do it this way." So we've
been making some progress.
So what is directory services?
This has historically been this session,
but it's a little briefer this year.
By and large,
it's an open architecture that allows
you to take your Mac OS X software,
which is the blue box in this diagram,
and base it on top of
open directory services.
On the back end,
open directory services has
existing plug-ins for NetInfo,
LDAP.
This year we're adding BSD flat files,
so apparently SciTech wants to use
Etsy files for the configuration.
And other plug-ins.
I believe we have some third parties that
have shipped plug-ins on the lower layer,
and we're working with some
universities on developing plug-ins.
So directory services is a
read-write API abstraction that if
you put your software on top of it,
you don't have to care about what
directory Mac OS 10's been used
to get its users and groups from.
Okay.
So what does Mac OS 10.1 include
as part of directory services?
Well, it includes a v2,
an LDAP v2 plug-in.
It includes a NetInfo client.
And it includes full documentation
for using the directory
API and writing a plug-in.
Some of that documentation is in
the form of developer documentation
and other documentation is actually
published on the Mac OS X server website.
We have a white paper, for example,
that tells a customer how to
integrate Mac OS X into an
existing active directory server.
The goal there was more as a
demonstration of our LDAP connectivity,
not so much as a demonstration
of active directory.
But we have documented
access API and a plug-in API.
We have an SDK.
Calling an SDK is really
kind of an overstatement.
What it is really is a collection
of sample code that shows people how
to use the directory service APIs.
You don't need to install the
SDK to use directory services.
I've received that question a lot.
But everything you
need is in the Core OS.
But if you want to see some sample code,
you can do that.
You can download the SDK,
you can download the code,
see some stub plug-ins,
get some other information
about directory services.
The SDK has, I guess,
augmented or additional information.
And that can be downloaded from the
URL that you see there on the screen.
The headers, if you have a PowerBook,
you're welcome to inspect
the headers right now.
Open it up.
Go to
/system/library/frameworks/directory/s
ervices.
You'll find the headers there.
Although,
it'd probably be better for you to
pay attention to the presentation.
What is Mac OS X One Directory Server?
For Mac OS X One, we include NetInfo,
which we feel is a powerful,
scalable and very,
very useful directory service to
ship with the operating system.
It's part of Darwin.
It provides both standalone
access and shared network access
and this is a fantastic server.
Moving forward in Jaguar,
we're going to be augmenting this
directory server architecture
with an open LDAP server.
Mac OS 10.1 directory tools.
The directory tools that we use for
directory services are largely provided
by server software or desktop software,
and they're included with the
operating system or with the directory
server or with the desktop OS.
These are the Mac OS X server
administration tools,
which are entirely based on the
open directory technologies.
NetInfo Manager uses NetInfo,
and that allows you to set
up the open directory server.
NetInfo Domain Setup is a tool we ship
with Mac OS X Server for setting up
directory servers or setting up NetInfo.
And there's a number
of command line tools,
ni-dump, ni-grep,
a whole list of ni tools that
are management tools based on
the open directory technologies.
I've received this question and
this was a slide my management
wanted me to have in here for years.
I just got around to doing it this year.
How does Mac OS X use directory services?
And if you look at this diagram,
it's a very, very subtle diagram.
But whenever somebody calls a POSIX call
like get PWName or get hostname
or something along those lines,
it dispatches on the left side of the
screen and dispatches down to an existing
process in Mac OS X called LookupD.
LookupD handles the request and
dispatches it and reads directory data.
What we've done for Mac OS X and
JAGUIRE is we've tied LookupD in
with directory services.
So regardless of which API you're
using to access directory data,
if you're an existing POSIX application
accessing directory data
or a new application that's
using the open directory APIs,
you get the same data out of the system.
So what happens is LookupD is
a pluggable architecture.
We've written a plugin for
LookupD that we call DS Agent.
DS Agent dispatches all the data
requests to the directory services side.
It's a very simple way to do that.
But whatever plugins have been
enabled in directory services,
LookupD benefits from that data.
If you're calling directory
services directly,
it just dispatches to directory services,
dispatches to the plugin,
and accesses the directory data.
So this is pervasive and
fundamental in Mac OS X.
Any time you look up a user record,
any time you look up a group record,
any time you look up a mount
record for an NFS mount,
the data's coming from
directory services.
What directory services allows a
customer to do is tell the operating
system where their preferred
place for retrieving that data is.
So if you're calling a server,
you're calling a server,
and you're calling a server,
you're calling a server.
That's the way it's going to be.
You can do that with any
of the different services.
Open Directory and Jaguar.
That's the past.
We've already done all that.
We've already shipped all that.
What we're here to talk about today
is what we plan to do tomorrow.
And that's Jaguar.
What are we doing for Jaguar?
Open Directory will support LDAPv3,
ReadWrite, Native, SSL,
everything that was
requested for the past year.
We will support BSD/Essie files and we're
adding some more plugins which will be
talked about later in this presentation.
For servers, we're including OpenLDAP.
It is the OpenLDAP that is already
downloadable and runnable on Mac OS X.
It's server and client.
The server is OpenLDAP.
The client is the LDAPv3 plugin we're
including with directory services.
And the LDAP server will share the
database with the NetInfo server,
so there's no need to migrate your data.
If you already have a NetInfo
database set up with users,
groups and mounts in it,
you fire up the open LDAP server
and it will use the same database.
If you add a record through
LDAP and create a user record,
it gets put in the database.
If you delete a record,
it shows up as deleted
on the NetInfo side.
So this will allow our customers
and our developers to migrate
very gradually from NetInfo to
LDAP or keep NetInfo or keep LDAP.
So you have the best of both worlds
and you don't have to set up two
separate databases on the system.
New authentication options.
There's going to be an extensive
talk on this later in the thing.
Readable crypt passwords are going away.
If your application...
Thank you.
If your application needs
to do password validation,
you can no longer assume
to get PWNAM returned to
your readable CRP password.
There are abstractions that you
will need to adopt so that you can
verify user passwords in the system.
There's a lot of effort going on here.
There's a lot of work.
I'm not going to try to steal Jason's
thunder later in the presentation.
We have a great presentation
for you in that area.
Enhancements we're going to cover today.
My intro section is almost done.
I'm going to be bringing up some
of the engineers who actually do
the work as opposed to stand up
on stage and do presentations.
They're going to be
talking about open source.
They're going to be talking
about directory proxy,
which is a very interesting new feature.
We're going to be talking about LDAPv3.
We're going to be talking about
the BSD config file plugins.
Then we're going to cover
authentication and service discovery.
How many of you just came
from the zero comp talk?
We're going to be talking about
service discovery at that top layer
that Stuart said at the end of his
presentation and how we support both
Rendezvous and Apple Talk and how this
becomes an integrated story so that
we support all the service discovery
protocols until Rendezvous takes
the world over in about three weeks.
and this time I'd like to
invite Ken Witzk up on stage
and he'll be talking to you
more about directory services.
Thank you.
Okay, first off,
I've been working on directory
services for over two years now.
And I am really excited to be here.
I want to be able to share the
knowledge I've gained through
those two years with everyone here.
So let's talk about our first
three topics we've got here.
What we got here is open source,
where we are,
we're going to talk about where we are
today and where we're going with Jaguar.
For Directory Proxy,
we're going to talk about what this means
for remote access to open directory.
For LDAP,
we're going to talk specifically of the
enhancements we have added since 10.1.
So I know it's been
mentioned many times already.
Open Directory or Directory Services is
part of open source now.
You can go get it at that URL.
What does that mean?
That means that directory
services for 10.1.
The product that is shipped right
now is the product out there.
The source that was
used is now open source.
What it also means is that any
development that we have done in Jaguar
Up until this point is also open source.
We haven't left anything out.
Now included in that is the API,
the daemon,
the plugins as we have written them,
LDAPv2, NetInfo, search.
This is a fantastic opportunity for
plugin developers to see how we have
done the code and to tell us how to
improve upon our code or to take and
run with that code and make their
own plugins for their own access
to their own directory servers.
For Jaguar,
we plan on also open sourcing DS Agent.
which is a plugin for LookupD.
Currently, what we call DS agent
in LookupD is a static
A static library included
inside LookupD itself.
It is open source now.
We also plan on releasing LDAPv3 plugin,
full read/write.
and as Dave has mentioned already,
the BSD configuration file plugin.
and we have a series of service
discovery plugins that we also will open
source and my colleague Jason will talk
about that later in this presentation.
So let's move on to directory proxy.
What does that mean for remote access?
What we want to be able to do is
allow administrators to remotely
access across the network the
open directory on a server,
i.e.
maybe a server in a closet somewhere.
Maybe that administrator had gone
home for the day and he wants
to connect in via VPN to access
that server to update something.
In either case,
We want that remote access.
To that end, we have made it, I believe,
very concise on how to do this
conversion or add this capability.
We need to understand the API dispatch
models as they exist today.
And we'll go through that right now.
The local dispatch model,
we have an open directory client.
That uses the
Directory Service Framework using Moch.
An API request is sent to the daemon.
The daemon then properly
dispatches it to the plugin
that will process the request.
www.kent.edu/dirtyservice-diamond-blogsp
ot
For the proxy model, here we have,
let's say, a client machine A.
Another server machine B.
And the first thing we need, of course,
is our network.
The nice thing about this
addition here for proxy is that
The players still stay the same.
The only addition now is the network.
We have an open directory client,
a directory service framework,
We sent a TCP/IP request
across the network.
It gets to the daemon.
There again the daemon
dispatches it to the plugin.
The plugin processes.
It goes back.
The framework receives it.
The request is done.
So the question is,
how did we accomplish that?
Well, let's talk about the key thing in
here is we have 128-bit encryption.
It is a secure connection.
[Transcript missing]
In other words,
if you are accessing remotely,
you need to be an administrator on
that remote machine to gain access.
For existing applications out there,
client apps that exist today,
the changeover is very simple.
It consists of one API change.
Currently we have a call to
DSOpenDir service and then a
series of calls like DSOpenDirNode,
DSGetRecordList,
whatever the other API calls are.
The change is in the initial call,
now we just need to call DSOpenDirProxy
and then the framework takes
care of everything underneath.
The proxy call would
require an IP address,
a username and password.
That's it.
Now I think a lot of people
are interested in LDAP.
This is from a client perspective,
not from a plugin perspective because
this is our plugin we've developed.
The first thing we're adding is LDAPv3,
read-write.
You know that already.
You've heard it a couple times.
SSL comes with that.
The second thing we've done is we've
added Minimize Configuration Setup.
And this is pretty cool.
We'll touch on that shortly.
The third thing is we've
expanded our record definitions
to handle more complex schemas.
In other words,
we've listened to our customers
and we've responded here.
And lastly, we've also added
OpenLDAP Server itself on Mac OS X.
So let's move on to minimize
configuration setup.
What we have here is a client
zero configuration story.
An iBook coming into a network,
receiving information via
DHCP and retrieving information
via directory services.
to enable an LDAP directory
server node to be placed on
the automatic search policy.
The two components of
this are DHCP option 95,
This is where the DHCP server
supplies to its clients the
LDAP URL that directory service
uses to extract server information.
The other component is that we have
come up with a way to store our config
information that is now currently
set up through directory setup or
now what we will be calling directory
access remotely on the server itself.
So there's no going around to every
machine to set up your configuration.
We realize that a lot of
LDAP schemas are complex.
So what we've done is enhance
our ability to accommodate that.
First off,
we're adding full object class support.
That is,
instead of just using search base,
you will be able to use object class,
discriminators,
for defining record types,
standard record DS record types.
Secondly, we've added specific attribute
mappings on a per record type basis.
[Transcript missing]
by automatically generating
default values for what we call
the LDAP schema must attributes.
Open LDAP server in Jaguar
is based on version 2.1.x.
All changes that are made here
on Mac OS X will be released
back into the source tree.
It's LDAPv3 compliant.
and lastly as Dave has already mentioned,
we want this,
we have a shared data store and we
want interoperability between LDAP and
NetInfo clients to that data store.
Now to get a feel for the
LDAP enhancements that we've made,
I want to invite Jason Townsen
up here to give you a short demo.
Alright,
so here I have a Jaguar machine and let's
just take a look at what we've done with
directory access to configure LDAPv3.
So you'll also notice before
I get into that that we've
got a bunch of plugins here.
So if you remember on 10.1,
if you've ever looked at directory setup,
there was LDAPv2 and NetInfo.
And now we've got
BSD configuration files.
We've got LDAPv3.
We have some new plugins
for service discovery.
Directory access is also where
you configure your authentication
and contact search policies.
So authentication is what is used
when you log in at login window
or over personal file sharing.
And context will be used when
you're searching for email addresses
in address book or mail app.
So LDAPv3, you select LDAPv3,
click on configure,
and you'll notice we have a sheet now.
It starts off with just showing
the option of whether or not you
want to use our DHCP LDAP support.
But if you wanted to do
some manual configuration,
you can disclose the window, the sheet,
and get a list of
locally defined servers.
This is kind of similar
to what we had before.
So let's say I want to do a
custom configuration first.
I'll just bring up the
edit dialogue for that.
Go into search and mappings.
This is similar to what we had in LDAPv2
for record and attribute type mappings.
For this example,
I'm just going to map groups and users.
So I can select both
of those and add them.
And you'll notice when I map users,
I have search base,
as we've had in the past.
So I'll say dc=apple, dc=com.
But I can also add object
classes like I could say inet
org person or POSIX account.
I could also require that both of
those object classes be present
for any record of the user type.
In addition to that,
I could add specific attribute type
mappings only for user records,
such as the real name and record name,
just to give you an idea.
For real name,
I might want to map that to CN.
And record name,
I could map to CN and UID.
Actually, you know what?
I want to put UID first.
So I'll just drag that around
and then we've got that.
So that's the attribute mappings.
Now we can also have global attribute
mappings that would show up in this top
group called default attribute types.
So for that I could add a
global record name mapping.
And then I could add a
and just map that to CN.
So groups would get CN as
the mapping for record name,
whereas users would get both UID and CN.
OK.
So that was a lot of work, wasn't it?
And you can imagine if
I actually mapped all of the
attributes that we really want,
like unique ID and password
or primary group ID,
that it would take quite
a while to do that.
So something that we've added as part of
the support for DHCP LDAP is the ability
to say I want actually a server config.
So here I can, I can manually
The domain name of the server
and then for the mappings pop-up,
pick from server.
Then optionally specify a search
base where those mappings are stored.
and I'm done.
Now,
if I had a DHCP server that was set up
to tell me the URL to this LDAP server,
I wouldn't have to do anything.
But you can also have an
intermediate step where if you want
to manually assign IP addresses,
you can still use server-based
configuration for that.
All right.
So let's go back to the slides.
So, let's go back to the slides.
So, let's
We're going to talk about authentication
and service discovery on Jaguar.
As Dave mentioned, we are moving beyond
crypt passwords on Jaguar.
Applause if you feel like it.
Thank you.
So you may know,
if you're applauding about this,
you probably know what Crypt is.
You know that Unix is
historically based on Crypt,
and Mac OS X has used Crypt stored
in the user's record in NetInfo.
On Jaguar, for any particular user,
this may not be the case.
We may be using an MD5 password stored
in the user's record instead of crypt.
We might be using the password server
or Kerberos-based authentication.
Let me interject and say,
for Kerberos-based authentication,
if you're interested in this,
stay where you are,
because we've got the Kerberos
session coming up next in this room,
and it's going to be great.
I encourage you to check that out.
In order to support all of these
different types of password storage,
you need to use one of our
password verification APIs.
Don't use getpwnam and crypt,
because when you call getpwnam,
there's no guarantee that a crypt
password is going to come back for you.
So you need to use one
of these abstractions.
So let me go over them.
There's three of them
that we've listed here.
The security framework provides
password verification and
a standard user experience.
This is what's used when you're
clicking on the lock button in directory
access or in system preferences.
So it's used often when you need to gain
administrator privileges to do something.
The second one is PAM,
or pluggable authentication modules.
This is an API that is available
cross-platform on Linux and
Solaris and other BSD platforms.
So, it's a good choice if you want to
do cross-platform code and keep the
same APIs across all your platforms.
Finally, we have Directory Services.
Directory Services is the most
flexible because it allows you,
in addition to simple password
verification where you have
a username and a password and
you want an answer of yes,
that's good, or no, it's bad,
you can do a challenge
response authentication,
such as APOP or CRAM MD5,
and support that authentication
through a server,
such as a mail server.
Directory Services provides
no standard user experience.
It's a low-level API,
so that would be a reason to
go with security framework if
you need the user interface.
So now that we're adding all
these types of password storage,
how do we know when one of these
requests comes in what to do?
Well, we've added a new attribute called
the authentication authority.
This is an optional attribute
for the user record,
and it tells us what we need to
do to authenticate that user.
We've defined four major types
of values for this attribute.
We've got basic.
This is the legacy behavior,
which is crypt.
The second one is basic specific,
which would be used, for example,
for MD5.
Any other type of situation where you're
storing a hash in the user's record,
but you might need a
different transfer function.
The third one is password server.
I'm going to go into
more detail on that soon.
And Kerberos.
We're looking to expand
this in the future,
so we may add more in the future,
but we've designed it so
that it can be extensible.
So,
some of the example values you might see,
the format is semicolon delimited.
We have the version, the tag,
and optionally tag data.
In the case the attribute is missing,
which would be,
which would happen when you, for example,
you upgrade a 10.1 machine to Jaguar,
we continue using Crypt as
we have in the past.
If it explicitly says basic,
we will use Crypt.
And then we've got some
other examples there.
For basic specifically, we might say MD5.
That would tell us what
the function is to use for,
to create the hash.
And for password server,
we would store in the data
the network address of the
server and an ID for the user.
And for Kerberos,
we could specify the Realm name.
So, I've mentioned password
server a couple of times.
This is a really exciting feature
that we're adding in Jaguar Server.
And it's based on a
standard called SASSL,
which stands for Simple Authentication
and Security Layer.
This is a standard that
was developed to add
Secure authentication support to
existing protocols such as IMAP or FTP.
But we've taken that standard
and made it into its own protocol
with the password server.
So every time an
authentication is performed,
there is a SASSL method in use
and it's a standard that could
potentially be proxied through
directory services through a
particular server like a mail server.
The password server provides
only password verification.
This is very important because it
means that there is no password
recovery over the network.
So it's not possible to do an
offline attack against a password
server across the network.
The other big win that we get by forcing
everyone to use the password server
any time they touch a password is
that we can enforce password policies.
So we can say that this user,
for example, must have a ten character
password or greater,
or all of the users on my password
server must have ten character passwords.
Also, we could say that every three
months I want the password to expire
and the user have to reset it.
So let's take a look at an example of
how we might use the password server.
Here we've got Mac OS X client,
a Jaguar server,
a directory server and a password server.
In this example,
we're representing all of
these as separate machines,
but depending upon the
layout of the network,
we could just have all three of
those servers running on the same
machine or combine two of them.
It's totally flexible in that respect.
So the first step is that the
authentication information is sent
from the client to the server.
This would include the user name,
for example.
Second step, the Jaguar server will look
up the user's record and
Directory services will consult the
authentication authority to determine
what type of authentication to perform.
And in this case,
the user's record will say this
is a password server user in
their authentication authority.
So the next step is that the
password is verified using SASSL,
using the appropriate SASSL mechanism
For that scenario.
So depending upon whether the
ClearText password is already provided to
directory services or it's using a proxy,
one of the authentication methods
will determine which one gets used.
Finally, we have success.
The client is given access to the server.
As I mentioned before, we're using SASSL.
We're supporting existing
methods that were defined by
IANA for SASSL over TCP/IP.
We've also added some new ones.
Some of the existing ones,
examples might be CRAMMD5 or APOP.
Some of the new ones
include two-way random and
The password server also provides
a secure set password operation.
So even though the password change is
happening over the network potentially,
it's not sending the
password in the clear.
So, to review, we're going to support
more than just Crypt.
So, to get ready for that change,
your application needs to be using
one of our password verification APIs.
And if you use those APIs,
then the password server
will be transparent to you.
and you won't have to do anything else.
Also, if we add additional authentication
authorities in the future beyond Jaguar,
you'll pick those up when
they come online too.
So let's talk about service discovery
and shift gears a little bit.
I'm sure basically the entire room here
was over at the rendezvous session.
I was there.
And so this is a really exciting
area for Apple right now.
From the perspective
of directory services,
we've got an API called
Network Service Location.
That's our high level
API for service discovery.
This has been available as part of
TENS since day one and it actually
was available on nine as well.
It provides access to the raw
data if you need that or you can
put up a standard user interface.
An example of this that you're
probably all familiar with is connect
to server in the finder uses NSL.
In Jaguar,
NSL is entirely based on open directory.
So this means that we're merging both
static directories like LDAP along
with dynamic directories like
Rendezvous and presenting them all
together through the same abstraction.
It also means that when you write
a directory services plug-in that
your plug-in can be available to
NSL and show up in Connect-to-Server.
As we mentioned before,
and you saw in Directory access,
we've got a bunch of new
service discovery plug-ins.
Apple Talk, SLP and Rendezvous are
just some examples.
The other change is that we've
provided a new logical structure
in the connect to server dialogue.
There's a local item which
provides a collection of all of
the service discovery data that is
considered local to your machine.
Rendezvous on the local
multicast would be part of that,
as well as your default SLP scope,
your local Apple Talks zone,
the local NetInfo domain, and so on.
Then if what you're looking
for is not local to you,
you can go to the network item
and that has the full hierarchy
of everything that's available.
So existing applications that are already
using NSL will automatically benefit
from our new plug-ins and will not have
to change anything to continue working.
So NSL will automatically,
in the connect to server
dialogue if you use that,
convert from the rendezvous data
into a URL that you can use.
So service registration
is the other half of this.
If you're writing a server or a
service and you want to have support
for discovering it on the network,
you need to register.
You should add support for
Rendezvous and register using
either CFNet services or the low
level DNS service discovery APIs and
continue supporting legacy service
discovery for maximum compatibility.
If you're being browsed
by a Mac OS 9 machine,
then you might want to continue using
Apple Talk or SLP because that will
not have support for Rendezvous.
You should also consider,
when you're looking at
service registration,
adding a preference so that a network
administrator could decide that they only
want to use Rendezvous on their network.
and give the administrator the
choice rather than assuming that you
should register on everything always.
So in summary,
NSL is a high level convenient
API to use for service discovery.
It provides support for many
protocols including rendezvous
as well as existing protocols.
It's got support for the raw data as
well as the high level human interface.
and you should add Rendezvous
Service Registration to your product
because this is Apple's strategy
moving forward and we believe
it's going to be much better than
anything we've done in the past.
Keep in mind, though,
you should allow the customer
choice as to which of these service
discovery protocols they should use.
At this point we've got another demo.
So, go back to the demo screen.
And I just wanted to show you what
I mean by the local and network
items in connect to server dialog.
So, here I've got local.
I take a look at that.
There'll be a couple of
items showing up here.
Right now I'm only using,
on the client side I've disabled
a couple of plug-ins you may have
noticed before in directory access.
Actually I have Apple Talk on still,
but I've disabled SLP.
Right now I'm only looking at
The next slide is a little
bit more complicated.
I'm going to show you a little bit
more of a list of the things that
we're going to be talking about.
I'm going to show you a little bit
more of a list of the things that
we're going to be talking about.
Here's one that's coming over Apple Talk.
This is actually the machine
right next to the demo machine.
What I can do is,
if I want on the client,
I could disable AppleTalk in
directory access,
and that would take it out of
connect to server on this machine.
But it's only changing what
my view of the network is.
I'll just go ahead and do that.
Maybe turn off.
MDNS is the name of the rendezvous
plugin in the Jaguar seed.
So if I do that, go back,
take a look at network.
OK.
So now nothing's there.
But if I turn AppleTalk back on,
Maybe I'll get something.
Actually,
it looks like I'm getting nothing.
Anyway,
but the point is that now that we have
all these plug-ins and directory access,
we have control over which
service discovery protocols
we're using as a client.
And in addition to that,
it'd be really great if the services
started giving people this control
so that we could use the service
discovery protocol that's best for
the environment that we're working in.
At this point,
I'd like to hand it back to
David O'Rourke for a summary.
and the rest of the team.
There's the machine.
We're going to cover just a quick
summary to go over what we did and
hopefully highlight some of the points
and then we'll bring Tom Weyer up,
who I'm sure you're all familiar with,
to go into some Q&A.
This has been a big week for us.
Open Directory.
Directory Server, Directory Access,
Directory Tools.
Open source, download the source,
email us with your bugs,
email us with your source enhancements,
email us with your feature requests.
But also use this as a repository if
you have custom site requirements.
This provides a fantastic source
base for you guys to start with.
If you want to modify the
LDAP server or your LDAP client
to do something just slightly
different than how Apple shipped it,
it's now completely possible for
you to start with our LDAP plugin,
modify it and deploy it at
your site for your needs.
Jaguar features.
We've got an LDAPv3
server and client story.
We've got read/write access.
We've got a near zero comp
story on DHCP integration.
I want to spend a little bit of time
on this and just reemphasize this.
The goal of this is that someone
can take an iBook into an
institution or managed network,
open it up and from the DHCP server
configured on that campus learn about
the LDAP server without them having
to go to Directory Access at all.
I think we've substantially
upgraded Directory Access,
made it easier to use.
We'll be looking for your feedback
based on your experience with it.
But the goal really is that
they shouldn't have to go
to Directory Access at all.
Not even just click one or two buttons.
They should have to
do absolutely nothing.
We will learn about the LDAP server
automatically and automatically
configure all of our schema mappings
without anybody having to do anything.
So we've got read/write,
DHCP integration,
the ability to download our
configuration from the LDAP server
itself so I don't have to visit 3,000
iBooks and reenter that information.
And we have complex schema support
so that we can accommodate more
of the schemas that have already
been deployed at many sites.
We have Directory Proxy,
which is a very interesting feature
that allows you to take your existing
directory API based application and
allow it to remotely go out and see
the directories from the perspective
of another machine on the network.
This makes remote administration
tasks almost trivial if you've
based your read/write software
on the Directory Access API.
We have authentication changes.
If you take one message away from it,
that perhaps should be the message.
We are going to try to get rid of Crypt.
Your app should get off
of relying on the Crypt.
Get on to an abstraction API.
Security Framework, PAM,
Directory Services.
Work with Tom, work with me,
work with anybody and we'll help you
determine what the right abstraction is
for you to adopt in your application.
Jaguar features NSL which is a long
standing technology and the engineer
who brought it to us is in the audience.
He's been working on it hard.
He and I have been cooperating the last
year to get NSL off of its own plugin
architecture and onto directory services
so that it could automatically benefit
from the LDAP v3 work we were doing,
the search policy work we were doing,
the automatic and zero-conf work
that we've been doing to discover
DHCP and the rendezvous work.
We've been working very closely with
Stuart Cheshire and all of that work.
We've reorganized NSL so it now
has a notion of what's local to
you and what your network is.
We think there's a lot
of enhancements there.
Add rendezvous registration
to your networking product.
I saw the demo in the keynote of iTunes.
You saw Stuart's demo today.
Rendezvous is a very exciting technology.
This is something everybody
who does networking software
should be looking into.
Jaguar servers.
We're going to include a
SASSL based password server.
We think this is a huge deal.
It will allow you to get your
passwords out of a readable database
and into a centralized and hopefully
safe repository to where people
can't download the password database.
It will also allow you to
support authentication methods.
It will allow you to enforce policies.
Jaguar Kerberos support.
You heard that in the server session.
I believe it was
mentioned in the keynote.
There's this whole session,
a whole hour and a half after
this session for which we'll
be talking about Kerberos.
Apple's putting a lot of
effort into Kerberos and
we're very excited about that.
For more information, again,
Stuart Cheshire had a really
interesting point in his zero comp.
He kept saying Apple,
we didn't invent anything here.
We're not trying to invent anything here.
Well, to some degree,
the directory services team
has taken the same vein.
Apple seems to have arrived
at this conclusion at
similar time points in life.
LDAPv3, we didn't invent that,
but we're adopting it
and making it better.
SASL, we didn't invent that,
but we're adopting it and
we're going to make it better.
Directory service and location, NSL,
all of this is existing documentation.
That's the second bullet on the slide.
And directory services is, once again,
open source.
For a roadmap,
so you need to go back in time
and go to Tuesday at 2 p.m.
and you would see me speak about
directory services being open source.
Then you can hang out for another day,
eat at a different place Tuesday night,
and go to the session
on security Wednesday.
Zero comp networking only requires you
to travel back in time a couple of hours.
And stay in your seats.
Don't let anyone take them.
In fact, the room's already full.
I don't think we should let
anybody new into the room.
For the Kerberos talk.
Let's not, they were late.
They didn't come to my talk.
They shouldn't deserve to see Kerberos.
So,
if everyone will just stay in the room
when we're done and tell everyone else
to go away who cares about Kerberos,
that's coming up right after this.
and The person to contact is Tom Weier.
In fact,
I recommend you register that email
address at any website you visit
or anything along those lines.
Hopefully some of the email that he'll
receive after me telling you to do
that on tape will actually be relevant
to this session or other sessions
that Tom's been responsible for.
So I appreciate your time.
At this point in time,
I think it's time to play Stump
the Experts and there's microphones
in the audience and I'm going
to invite Tom Weyer up on stage.